#summary How to configure a host to support deployment with git post-receive hooks and a standardized deployment script

== Configuring a New Host to Support Deployment ==

The common deployment directory, /home/deploy, requires special setup so that multiple users can deploy the same project.  The deployment directory should be setup as follows:

{{{
#!/bin/sh
mkdir -p /home/deploy
cd /home/deploy
find . -maxdepth 2 -type d | xargs -i sudo chmod g+s {}
sudo chmod -R g+rw *
sudo chmod -R a+r *
sudo chown -R $USER.deploy *
}}}

This procedure assumes a group, deploy, which has all of the team leads as members.

For these permissions to work correctly the post-receive hook will need to wrap the git checkout command inside two umask commands.  E.g.

{{{
## checkout the master to the release directory
umask 2
GIT_WORK_TREE=$RELDIR git checkout -f
umask 22
}}}

== Setting Up for Target Host for Deployment ==

Note: this process can only be performed by team leads on the staging and production hosts.

Configuring an application for deployment is a one-time operation that requires access to the git repository and ssh access to the target host.  It is much easier to do if you have set up an ssh keypair to suppress password input.  This procedure assumes that a keypair is already setup.

* ssh to the remote host to create a bare repository and the target directory

  ssh staging.example.org
  mkdir -p /home/deploy/my_project.git
  cd /home/deploy/my_project.git
  git init --bare
  chmod -R 775 /home/deploy/my_project.git

If you are deploying a PHP Project you'll then need to set up the project directory at /var/www
  sudo mkdir /var/www/my_project
  sudo chown -R www-data:users /var/www/my_project
  sudo chmod -R 570 /var/www/my_project

Then
  exit

* Back on your development host, create a post-receive script in source control for your project.  There is an example file, post-receive.example.txt, in the forge.  This tool is part of a suite of rsync and git deployment tools.  It can be checked out with the command

  git clone git+ssh://code.google.  blah blah blah

* Download this script and adjust it for your project. If your staging and production deployments will differ, copy the file to post-receive.staging and post-receive.prod and make the appropriate changes in each.

* Copy the post-receive file to the hooks directory in your bare git repo.

  scp post-receive.staging staging.example.org:/home/deploy/my_project.git/hooks/post-receive

* Make post-receive executable
  ssh staging.example.org
  cd /home/deploy/my_project.git/hooks
  sudo chmod +x post-receive

== Setting Up for Local Git Repo Deployment ==

* Configure your local git repo to use the remote repo you created above

  git remote add staging ssh://staging.example.org/home/deploy/my_project.git

    NOTE:  You should name the remote to match standard web address of the server to keep things consistent between projects.

* Determine what branch to push to the remote location. This should always be master. Finally make your first deployment of the master branch to the remote repo.  

  git push staging +master:refs/heads/master

Test your app at https://staging.example.org/my_project

== Redeploying Your Code ==

Redeploying your code is is easy as updating a remote repository.  First make sure you have the latest copy of master:

  git checkout master

Then push the changes to the 'staging' remote.

  git push staging

This will complete in a few seconds and your app will be updated.

== Setting up New Projects ==

Other Teams Leads will need some guidance if they are deploying your code.  Help them out by making a readme file in ./deploy of your project based on the example file, readMe.ProdAndStage.txt.example, in the forge.  This file is part of the suite of rsync and git deployment tools found at git@code.google.com blah blah blah 

== Issues with Sharing Releasing ==

Often the directory is set to the user who created the release.  To fix this follow these steps:
* copy over the old .git file using your sudo rights to a new location such as project-name-old.git.
* redo the procedures for initializing a new directory so it appears with your rights
* copy the post-receive hook from the project-name-old.git folder
* redo the git push servername +master:refs/heads/master