An express deployment of RPMSv2 on Tomcat6 on Debian Squeeze

= Introduction =

This document describes a scripted installation of RPMS v2 in a test environment.  It assumes you are building from source and deploying directly from the root of your source tree.  Tomcat6 and Debian Squeeze are the infrastructure for this deployment.  Further, this deployment is to a single Tomcat instance.  As this is a single instance of tomcat, the admin and collector apps are configured to find the services app at local host.

This environment is outside the standard, recommended method, but it is quick and easy.

= Details =

Stop Tomcat.

<code language="bash">
export TOMCAT=tomcat6
sudo /etc/init.d/$TOMCAT stop
</code>

Configure each of the RPMS applications.

<code language="bash">
cat << END | sudo tee /var/lib/$TOMCAT/shared/classes/consent-services.props
neo4j-db-path=/data/rpms
END

cat << END | sudo tee /var/lib/$TOMCAT/shared/classes/consent-client.props
services.url=http://localhost:8080/services
END

cat << END | sudo tee /var/lib/$TOMCAT/shared/classes/consent-admin.props
services.url=http://localhost:8080/services
END

</code>

If you don't already have it configured, set the log4j properties as well:

<code language="bash">
cat << END | sudo tee /var/lib/$TOMCAT/shared/classes/log4j.properties
log4j.rootLogger=WARN, console
log4j.appender.console=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
log4j.appender.console.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.console.layout.conversionPattern=%5p [%t] (%F:%L) - %m%n
END

</code>



Copy the war files to the Tomcat webapps directory

<code language="bash">
find . -iname "*.war" | grep consent-services | xargs -i sudo cp {} /var/lib/$TOMCAT/webapps/services.war
find . -iname "*.war" | grep consent-collect | xargs -i sudo cp {} /var/lib/$TOMCAT/webapps/collect.war
find . -iname "*.war" | grep consent-admin | xargs -i sudo cp {} /var/lib/$TOMCAT/webapps/admin.war
</code>

Start tomcat and monitor the deployment

<code language="bash">
sudo /etc/init.d/$TOMCAT start
tail -f /var/lib/$TOMCAT/logs/catalina.out
</code>

Access the admin app at http://127.0.0.1:8080/admin/  These accounts are valid:

|| *Username* || *Password* || *Role* ||
|| admin || root || superuser ||
|| ex-admin || password || Admin for Example Organization ||
|| ex-theman || password || Can do everything within Example Organization ||